MVP (the lean startup) smallest amount to develop and to get feedback. testing.
    validated learning: not biased.
    learning: not designed as an experiment


--how do product mangers think about MVPs--

resource risk tolerance

offset by concern for brand + opportunity cost

how big companies and startup manage risk and opportunity + trends -- go beyond with this

--seven steps to running managers think about MVP--

1 what is your product and solution to problem ideation

2 identify assumptions (find the riskiest)
    ideas are usually based on observations or intuition 
    in order for my idea to be successful the following must be true...
    common assumtions:
        my customer has xyz problem
        ___ matters to my customer
        ____ will pay for it
        no satisfactory substitutes
    
    real example:
        zirks on demand vallet parking 
        problem hard to park your car in big cities
        solution using a mobile app for on demand vallet parking
        what has to be true:
            parking is hard in big cities
            garage are inconvenients 
            garages are expensives 
            car parkers care about price, convience
            car parkerts dont care about speed
            people are not satisfied parking in a garage
            enough drivers have smartphones
            drivers can operate a smartphone while driving
            people will want to be ondemans
            people will reust valets parkers thier car
        organize assumtions by risk:
            methodology: riskiest first 
            no satisfactory substitutes
            will they pay for it - not riskiest
            ___ matters to my customer
            my customer has xyz problem - by far the riskiest
        the risk / difficulty square

            risk is it really important?

                            difficulty to prove

3 build hypothesis around them 
    hypothesis: single written testable statement
    hypothesis is actionable this is the difference between assumptions and hypothesis
    part of hypothesis:
        target group 
        potential problem
        action
        expected outcome
        example:
            simple:
                we believe subject/target will predicted question because reason
            better:
                if we "action(change color of button)", we believe "subject (customer)" will "predicted action/outcome (buy more)"
                because "reason (it will see better)" 
            the pm way: 
                we believe "subject" has a "problem" because "reason". If we "action", this "metric" metric will improve

        hypothesis for zirks_ 
            we believe people have cars and are 30-50 years won't have problem letting their car to a valet because garages are to expensives
            in LA

    which are the most used tests? !!

4 establish minimum criteria for success
    gives clarity and meaning, 
    how to make it: 
        cost: developers time, labor wages, ads, legacy issues, opportunity costs, brand effect 
        vs 
        reward metrics like: increased revenew, time spent on page, #of shares, number of likes, convertion rate.
    
    formula for MCS: 
        calculate reward vs cost

    make the calculation for startups:
        validations metrics. 

    better lecture on this.
5 pick up MVP strategy and type
    how much you need to fakeit 
    the most fake:
        email MVP
        shadow button mvp 
        404 page
        coming soon page
    less scrapy:
        explainers mvp - video tutorials video sales 
        fake landing page / pitch experiment (gold standard)
    others:
        beta program - concierge mvp - assess the customer in the journey
        piecemeal mvp - like groupon, make a functional website
        wizard of oz mvp - front end looks functional but backend logic isn't yet built

6 Execute, iterate, evaluate data

    quantitative data: % of user, time spent on mvp
    qualitative data: emotions 1-10 test
    collect both type of data

    do you make the feature and give the green light?

    do you scrap the whole idea?

    do you think you should re run the test but on a different hypothesis?

7 