Metrics - KPI - define success.

analize metrics by industries....

the road to define metrics i find more interesting than the metric itself - what are the questions we need to ask?

--metrics of all kind--
big buckets

    Growth and activation
        how company is growing, users, active users, sales, profit,
    engagement
        how many times they like, tweets, minimum time spent to be engage., are they enjoying?
    retention
        retain users, actively using products, users that come back.
    user happiness
        net promoter scores, califications in appstore, google etc
    revenue
        moneeyy,, revenue, profit, LifeTimeValue, CostodAdquisitionCustomer, MonthlyRecurringRevenue

--how to pick good metrics --
facebook : be in facebook the most amount of time

comments on facebook makes people stay more in the app.

exploratory metrics (number of time a particular button is pressed) fata points that adds clues and are exploratory
 vs reporting metrics

what makes a good metric?
    understandable simple, quantity, &
    rate or ratio: active user vs total users
    correlation: correlates each other and not a side effect of other thing 
    changeable: you may change the frequency of metrics
+

--metrics frameworks--

HEART metric

happiness  how happy your customer are?
engagement  how engaged is your user in the short term
Adoption how many interested users have actually tried your product?
retention  how many users do you retain long term? 
Task success how successful are tou at allowing users to perform the most valuable task?

how is actually is taken in count fenomenology
Adoption
task success
engagement
retention
happiness

table

                         goals                                  signals                                     metrics
                    what do you what to happen                  what is the thing we need to measure?       a signal expressed over time. this is the thing you watch.
    
happiness           maximize drinker satisfaction               App store rating, NPS scores                app store rating, % of total ofNPS gave us perfect score
                    with our spike lemonade and the                                                         
                    delivery service

engagement          maximize # of orders and total value            # order per costumer                        average order value of all customer per day
                    of the orders (trhough add-ons like                 Order value                             and avg order users make per day
                    additional shots in the lemonade or 
                    extra fast delivery)

Adoption            maximize the number of people who order        #of pople that buyed 1 glass of lemon         #people download and order %
                    at least 1 glass of spiked lemonade            total amount that download and sign in     

retention           Maximize the % of users that return             who order the lemonade and when they did        retantion rate %
                    and place a repeat order on a Monthly
                    basis

task success     minimize # of abandoned carts(peps dont final buy) number of people that did not complete order        avg time to complete order
                 maximize the # of users that succesfully             amount of time completing the order                people who iniate order vs abandoned ratio
                complete an order within 5 minutes
see the docs

-- AARRR pirate method --
Acquisition
    users that went or download app
activation
    they are active now, do small thing to be active
retention
    make people that arent active to come back
referral 
    invite friends, make people share product
Revenue 
    revenue per user you're getting


--tracking your metrics in practice --

Google analytics

Crazyegg 

Kissmetrics

mixpanel

optimizely

segment